### Development workflow

1. Check out a new branch from main with the name format <ticket_id>/<description> - e.g., DEV-60/revert-note-on-cancel
1. When ready, open a Pull Request (PR)
   1. Title: brief description + ticket ID - e.g. Revert saved note on cancel (DEV-142)
   1. Description:
      - If the PR is a straightforward implementation of ticket Acceptance Criteria (AC), you only need to include the ticket ID - e.g., "DEV-142"
      - If there was anything special to note, it should be included in the description. e.g.:
        - [PR that's part of a series of related PRs](https://github.com/BetterAngelsLA/monorepo/pull/305)
        - [Explanation of complex feature](https://github.com/BetterAngelsLA/monorepo/pull/347)
        - [Explanation of a bugfix](https://github.com/BetterAngelsLA/monorepo/pull/298)
   1. Assign the PR to yourself
1. :hammer_and_wrench: For engineering reviews (required for all PRs):
   1. For the PR author:
      1. in Jira, move ticket to "Review"
      1. in `#tech-team-engineering`, paste a link to the PR and tag someone from eng - e.g., <span style="color:#1c9bd1">@mike Revert saved note on cancel (DEV-142)</span>
         1. if the PR is for something simple that needs to go out quickly (e.g., bumping expo dependencies), you can tag the whole team. - i.e., <span style="color:#1c9bd1">@engineering</span>
      1. request a review from that person in the PR
         1. if you tagged the team, whoever responds should self-request a review
   1. For the reviewer:
      1. For PRs that add or modify FE behavior or design, do a quick QC pass in the app/simulator to ensure AC was satisfied and no regressions were introduced.
      1. Post any questions, comments, change requests, etc.
      1. In slack, "reply in thread", letting the PR author know whether you approved the PR or had comments/questions/changes.
   1. revision -> re-review process continues until PR is approved.
      1. All PR comments/responses should be in the PR comments
      1. All updates re: the status of the PR should be in the slack thread for that PR
      1. For major revisions (anything that won't be ready for re-review within a day), the ticket should be moved back to "In progress"
1. :iphone: For product reviews (required only for PRs that add or modify FE behavior or design):
   1. For the PR author:
      1. in Jira, move ticket to "Product Acceptance"
      1. in `#tech-qc-testing`, paste a link to the PR and tag product - e.g.,
         <span style="color:#1c9bd1">@product Revert saved note on cancel (DEV-142)</span>
   1. For the reviewer:
      1. Post any questions, comments, change requests, etc. in PR comments
      1. In slack, "reply in thread", letting the PR author know whether you approved the PR or had comments/questions/changes.
   1. revision -> re-review process continues until PR is approved.
      1. All PR comments/responses should be in the PR comments
      1. All updates re: the status of the PR should be in the slack thread for that PR
      1. For major revisions (anything that won't be ready for re-review within a day), the ticket should be moved back to "In progress"
      1. If the product review requires major revisions to the code, another engineering review may be required.
1. Once you have the necessary approvals:
   1. Squash merge the PR. Before confirming the merge, clear the autogenerated "optional extended description". You can add comments or a description if you want, but we don't want to commit the list of squashed commits.
   1. Once the PR has been merged, move the corresponding ticket to "Done"

### Additional guidelines:

1. The PR author is responsible for advancing the PR to completion. At standup:
   1. list the PRs you're waiting for reviews on (tag the reviewer in your standup notes)
   1. mention any blockers - e.g., another PR/ticket is blocking yours, you ran into a bug you need help with, unclear requirements, etc.
1. The reviewer is responsible for providing timely reviews.
   1. Acknowledge that you saw the post by replying with a :+1:
   1. When you begin your review, reply with a :eyes:
   1. If you don't think you'll be able to provide a review within time suggested below, please let the PR author know.
      1. Small: 1 hour - e.g.:
         1. Bug fixes
         1. Minor feature enhancements
         1. Small refactoring tasks
         1. Updating documentation
      1. Medium: 5 hours - e.g.:
         1. Adding a new feature
         1. Significant refactoring of a module
         1. Updating multiple parts of the application
      1. Large: next day, end of day - e.g.:
         1. Major feature implementation
         1. Large-scale refactoring
         1. Rewriting a substantial part of the application
         1. Merging long-lived branches
      1. For very large PRs, consider asking the author if the PR can be broken up into smaller pieces. Generally, if a PR is large because it includes AC from multiple tickets, it should be broken into smaller PRs aligned with the ticket requirements.
